[New] (300.0) Configure scene environment (#746)
Esri/arcgis-maps-sdk-swift-samples: Shared/Samples/Configure scene environment/README.md

# Configure scene environment

Configure the environment settings in a local scene to change the lighting conditions and background appearance.

![Image of Configure scene environment sample](configure-scene-environment.png)

## Use case

The scene environment defines the appearance of the local scene. This includes sky and background color settings, whether objects in the local scene cast shadows, and if virtual lighting or simulated sunlight is used to light the scene.

For an exploration scenario, like a city planning app, a developer might decide to enable sun lighting and direct shadows so the user can see how buildings and trees cast shadows at a given date and time.

For an analytic scenario, like examining a building scene layer, the developer may choose to use a virtual light source with shadows disabled and a solid background color instead of the atmosphere.

## How to use the sample

> At start-up, you will see a local scene with button at the bottom to open the scene environment controls. Adjusting the controls will change the scene's environment altering the presentation of the scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At start-up, you will see a local scene with a button at the bottom to open the scene environment controls. Adjusting the controls will change the scene's environment, altering the presentation of the scene.
```

Some notes about the behavior of the sky and background:

* The atmosphere is rendered in front of the stars and the stars are rendered in front of the background color.
* Stars are not rendered when using virtual lighting.
* To fully see the background color, atmosphere and stars must be deactivated.
* The background color shows in the night sky if the atmosphere is enabled and the stars are disabled.

### Lighting settings

The lighting buttons switch between sun lighting and virtual lighting. Switching to virtual lighting disables the “Stars” button since stars do not exist in a virtually lit scene. The time slider is also disabled under virtual lighting since time does not have an effect on the virtual light.

The “Shadows” button will enable or disable the rendering of shadows for 3d objects in the scene. Shadows are not rendered for surface terrain.

If sun lighting is active, the slider under the buttons will set the hour of the day ranging from 8AM to 10pm (22:00). Dragging the bar will change the position of the simulated sun causing changes to shading and direct shadows.

## How it works

> 1. Create a `Scene` from an online resource and add it to the `LocalSceneView`. The sample’s controls are updated to reflect the web scene's initial environment.

Reviewer: Geo models are not added to geo views in Swift. Perhaps something like this?

```suggestion
1. Create a `Scene` from an online resource and create a `LocalSceneView` with the new scene. The sample’s controls are updated to reflect the web scene's initial environment.
```

2. Changes to the sky and background color settings will set values directly on the `SceneEnvironment` object.

>     * `atmosphereIsEnabled` and `starsAreEnabled` are boolean properties dictating whether the atmosphere and star field are visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `atmosphereIsEnabled` and `starsAreEnabled` are Boolean properties indicating whether the atmosphere and star field are visible.
```

>     * Colors selected from the color picker are set to the `backgroundColor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The color selected using the color picker is set to the `backgroundColor`.
```

3. Changes to the settings in the lighting controls manipulate the `SceneLighting` object in the `SceneEnvironment.lighting` property.
    * Switching between “Sun” and “Virtual” lighting assigns a new `SunLighting` or `VirtualLighting` object to the lighting property.
        * Sun lighting simulates the position of the sun based on a given date and time. This includes lighting conditions for day, twilight, and night.
        * For virtual lighting, the light source is always on and is slightly offset from the camera. As the scene rotated or panned, the light source stays in the same position relative to the camera.

>     * The “Shadows” button sets the `directShadowsAreEnabled` boolean property on the lightning object. This toggles the shadows cast by objects in the scene.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * The “Shadows” button sets the `directShadowsAreEnabled` Boolean property on the lightning object. This toggles the shadows cast by objects in the scene.
```
